README.md, before:

# GraphQL Server on Cloud Functions for Firebase

Host a GraphQL Server in Cloud Functions for Firebase [with ES6+](https://github.com/jthegedus/firebase-functions-es6-example)!

Here is the accompanying [Medium Post](https://medium.com/@jthegedus/graphql-server-on-cloud-functions-for-firebase-ae97441399c0).

This method is markedly simpler than any other GraphQL-on-FaaS method I have seen. No custom packages for [GCP](https://github.com/nicolasdao/google-graphql-functions) or struggling with API Gateway or complex setup instructions for [AWS](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-server/tree/master/packages/graphql-server-lambda). Just use the [most prominent, community drive implementation](http://dev.apollodata.com/tools/graphql-server/index.html).

## TLDR;
Host your GraphQL Server on Cloud Functions enabling a low-cost, rapid development with GraphQL leveraging Firebase's sweet, sweet developer experience.

Cloud Functions can accept an [Express Server object directly](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/43579442/cloud-functions-for-firebase-and-express), so leverage the Apollo [graphql-server-express](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-server) pacakge to setup our GraphQL server.

The schema and resolvers are the same used in the [Apollo example](https://github.com/apollographql/frontpage-server).

## A note on Code Compatibility
Everything was tested on Ubuntu 16.04 & Windows 10 with [Bash on Ubuntu on Windows](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-au/commandline/wsl/about). If you wish for Windows native support please [submit an issue](https://github.com/jthegedus/firebase-functions-graphql-example/issues/new) so we can work on a Windows branch. Please report any macOS errors as I do not have access to a device to test. [My development environment can be found here](https://github.com/jthegedus/dotfiles).

## Installation
```
git clone https://github.com/jthegedus/firebase-functions-graphql-example
cd firebase-functions-graphql-example
yarn install
```
## Deploy to Firebase
```
yarn deploy
```
N.B.: You will need to connect the project to your Firebase project. Edit the name in .firebaserc

Commit message:

Update pkg deps. Use babel-preset-env to target cloud function(s) node runtime correctly.
add prettier with config file and precommit hook. Set nvmrc version to be the same as the cloud functions runtime. serve functions locally with the serve command.

README.md, after:

# GraphQL Server on Cloud Functions for Firebase

Host a GraphQL Server in Cloud Functions for Firebase [with ES6+](https://github.com/jthegedus/firebase-functions-es6-example)!

Here is the accompanying [Medium Post](https://medium.com/@jthegedus/graphql-server-on-cloud-functions-for-firebase-ae97441399c0).

This method is markedly simpler than any other GraphQL-on-FaaS method I have seen. No custom packages for [GCP](https://github.com/nicolasdao/google-graphql-functions) or struggling with API Gateway or complex setup instructions for [AWS](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-server/tree/master/packages/graphql-server-lambda). Just use the [most prominent, community drive implementation](http://dev.apollodata.com/tools/graphql-server/index.html).

## TLDR;
Host your GraphQL Server on Cloud Functions enabling rapid development with GraphQL on a low-cost, auto-scaling web server leveraging Firebase's sweet, sweet developer experience.

Cloud Functions can accept an [Express Server object directly](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/43579442/cloud-functions-for-firebase-and-express), so leverage the Apollo [apollo-server-express](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-server) pacakge to setup our GraphQL server.

The schema and resolvers are the same used in the [Apollo example](https://github.com/apollographql/frontpage-server).

### Routes
Schema: `https://us-central1-<project-name>.cloudfunctions.net/api/schema`

GraphiQL: `https://us-central1-<project-name>.cloudfunctions.net/api/graphiql`

GraphQL: `https://us-central1-<project-name>.cloudfunctions.net/api/graphql?<query>`

## Installation
```
git clone https://github.com/jthegedus/firebase-functions-graphql-example
cd firebase-functions-graphql-example
yarn install
```

## Local Development
```
yarn serve
```
This will serve the Cloud Functions locally using the [Firebase emulator](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/local-emulator).

## Deploy to Firebase
```
yarn deploy
```
*N.B.*: Replace `<project-name>` in the `.firebaserc` to connect the project to your Firebase project.

## A note on Code Compatibility
Everything was tested on Ubuntu 16.04 & Windows 10 with [Bash on Ubuntu on Windows](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-au/commandline/wsl/about). If you wish for Windows native support please [submit an issue](https://github.com/jthegedus/firebase-functions-graphql-example/issues/new) so we can work on a Windows branch. Please report any macOS errors as I do not have access to a device to test. [My development environment can be found here](https://github.com/jthegedus/dotfiles).
